# design-patterns

## Project Structure
The project serves as a sample to demo the use of several design patterns. The primary idea of the project is to emulate the work of a compiler which produces a syntax tree (AST) from some logical expression (e.g. `not (true and false)`). At this moment compilation consists of 3 steps:
  1. Preprocessing (macros substitution);
  2. Lexical analysis (tokens generation);
  3. Parsing (AST creation).

<!-- -->

Already used design patterns:
- Decorator
- Interpreter
- Facade

<!-- -->

Patterns to be used (rather odd choice, which however is not mine):
- Observer
- State

## Patterns Implementation
The following overviews are based on my own understanding and may not be accurate.

### Decorator
#### Overview
Decorator Pattern — add a new behaviour to the object (not the class!). \
\
Possible alternatives:
- The new bahaviour could've been added directly to the class. However, if the functionality is not required in advance (the requirement is identified only at runtime), the new behaviour may become redundant. This approach also goes against the SRP principle to a certain extent;
- It is possible to add a new behaviour simply by using inheritance. However, in that case, we would've had to create an entirely new object without using one that already existed.

Additional advantages:
- Ability to combine different decorators to achieve new behaviours, which follows the OCP principle.

#### Implementation
The implementation assumes that the preprocessing stage is optional and can be added to the compiler object if it's needed. Therefore, the `Preprocessor` class, which basically performs macro substitutions, serves as a decorator to the `Compiler` object. Usage of the pattern in the project looks like the following:
```cs
Compiler compiler = new Compiler(soruceCode);
Compiler compilerWithPreprocessor = new Preprocessor(compiler);

compiler.Compile();                  // only compilation
compilerWithPreprocessor.Compile();  // compilation with preprocessing stage
```

### Interpreter
#### Overview
Interpreter Pattern — traverse the AST and evaluate it. Usually, parsing and interpretation are combined, but parsing **is not** part of the pattern.
Thus, Interpreter focuses only on evaluation of already parsed expressions. The opposite of the Interpreter pattern depends on the context, but usually a compiler is considered as such, since it pre-translates the generated code (AST) to a lower level (machine code, bytecode, etc.) in order to execute it.

#### Implementation
Since Interpreter uses an already existing AST (which is generated by the `Parser` object), its implementation turns out to be rather straightforward.
It basically recursively calls its `Evaulate` method, thus traversing the tree bottom-up. Since the nodes with higher precedence are further down the tree, they will be evaluated first, thus following the precedence of the available operations (e.g., `and` has more precedence than `or`). \
The full implementation:
```cs
public bool Evaluate(BoolExpr expr)
{
  if (expr is And andExpr)
    return Evaluate(andExpr.LNode) && Evaluate(andExpr.RNode);
  else if (expr is Or orExpr)
    return Evaluate(orExpr.LNode) || Evaluate(orExpr.RNode);
  else if (expr is Not notExpr)
    return !Evaluate(notExpr.Expr);
  else
    return expr.Value;
}
```
